---
layout: default
title: Data Security and Storage
nav_order: 3
parent: Topics
---

{: .no_toc}  
# Data Security and Storage

A small description about the lesson.

<details markdown="block" class="toc">
  <summary>
    Table of Contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
- TOC
{:toc}
</details>

## Lesson Objectives
- A learning objective.
- Second learning objective.
- Another learning objective.

<!-- ## Lesson Video
The following video demonstrates each of the steps outlined below in text.

<iframe height="416" width="100%" allowfullscreen frameborder=0 src="https://echo360.ca/media/a65689c0-c35c-4f33-9c12-f0ac97883f54/public?autoplay=false&automute=false"></iframe>
[View original here.](https://echo360.ca/media/a65689c0-c35c-4f33-9c12-f0ac97883f54/public?autoplay=false&automute=false) -->

## Backup Strategies (3-2-1)

The best thing you can do for data storage is make sure that you have backups.

A good data storage plan should balance making your data easily accessible, but also reliable and secure.

The general rule of thumb is:
- **3** copies of your data (at least!)
- **2** copies are on-hand (easily accessible) on different systems (internal hard drive, cloud storage, etc)
  - a "production" (working) copy
  - a "production backup" copy
- **1** copy is in another location ("off-site") from the others with a trusted service provider

{: .new-title}
> Example
>
> 1 copy stored locally on hard drive for analysis  
> 1 copy stored on cloud storage platform  
> 1 copy stored in a secure campus drive

## Research Data Storage Finder Tool

McMaster provides a research data storage finder tool online which is an interactive tool to help you find, compare, and get access to different storage solutions depending on your needs.

u.mcmaster.ca/storagefinder

## How should I protect my data?

### Encrypt Sensitive Data

Sensitive data is any data that could cause harm if released openly. This includes personally identifiable information and personal health information.

- Use "Full disk encrpytion" if you are using a personal computer or laptop. This is called FileVault on Mac OS and "device encryption" or Bitlocker on Windows.
- Encrypt individual files in Microsoft Office using the "Protect Document" function.
- Other files can be encrypted using Disk Utility on Mac OS or with a third-part tool like VeraCrypt.

### Enable Multi-Factor Authenticator (MFA)

- Also known as 2 factor authentication (2FA)
- REquires more than one code or 'Factor' to login - typically 2 factors: password and a asecurity code sent to your phone number or generated by a linked authenticator app
- Many other web services (Gmail, Dropbox, etc) provide MFA

### Password Best Practices

Make sure your online information is secure by ensuring your password is:

**Strong**
: Make a strong password by combining a series of numbers, letters, and symbols into a long series of words. Try to combine them into something memorable - Like L1br@ryt1pS.

**Unique**
: Use a different password for every website/service

**Secret**
: Never share your passwords with anybody, even if you trust them. Keep your passwords secret by storing them only in your head. Never send them in an email!

**Fresh**
: Change your password at least once every three months

**Devices**
: Use a strong password on your computer and phone, too

{: .note-tip}
> Tip: Remembering multiple passwords can be difficult. Use a trusted password manager to keep track of your passwords for you. Some examples are BitWarden and 1Password.

### Common Password Mistakes

Written Down
: Passwords written down on a piece of paper or stored in plain text on a computer may be stolen by somebody with malicious intent or easily lost.

Too Simple
: Simple or common passwords are easy to guess or brute force. Examples: apple, rowboat, bumblebee, blizzard, password, admin

Same Password
: Using the same password for multiple websites is like having one key for multiple locks; if it's stolen, the thief can open them all.

## Key Points / Summary

- Remind the student about what they just learned.
- You can also note down any key information to keep in mind.

## Additional Resources (optional)

- Here, you can list some additional resources the student can access to learn more about this lesson.
